Before we continue working on this, it's time for a summary because we covered a lot of things and a
lot of different widgets over the last lectures.
For example in the transaction list, we now also use the ListTile, the CircleAvatar, padding, FittedBox,
there are so many new widgets which I covered in this module thus far and especially over the last
lectures.
Now I know that when I learned Flutter, I found the amount of widgets overwhelming.
Now I did of course already mention this earlier in the course,
there is this official widget catalog which I always recommend checking out to learn more about the
widgets we're using here and to also learn which widgets are available.
I also want to really stress here that there are so many widgets also because a lot of the widgets have
equal or comparable effects, not equal but comparably effects,
take the padding here.
I mentioned that you can build the exact same thing by using a container, you could use container with
padding. Padding is simply a shortcut here which you can use,
you don't have to but which you can use if you only want to set some padding.
It can be easier, doesn't add the extra overhead of all the other arguments which you might want to set
up and therefore using a padding if
you only need the padding is a bit clearer regarding your intents. Regarding performance,
it's hard to measure that but that should hardly make any difference.
Now CircleAvatar for example could also be replaced with a container which you manually turn into a
circle shape.
Now that's something we haven't done yet,
we haven't built our own shapes but if you would want to replace CircleAvatar, you could use a container
here.
Now of course in this container, you can't have a radius but what you can have here is a decoration
and here we can create a BoxDecoration which we did already earlier and there for example, you can set
your color to theme of context and then primary color to use that and then you can give this a shape here
and that by default if you hover over that is of type BoxShape.rectangle and you can set this to
BoxShape.circle to turn this container into a circle instead of a rectangle.
Now you can also give that container a height of 60 and a width of 60
and if you save that, you have basically your CircleAvatar, 60 instead of 30 because 30 was your radius
and therefore of course height and width are double the radius.
So this is just an example, of course you wouldn't build this on your own if you have a CircleAvatar,
if you want that exact look but this is basically how you could rebuild it. Of course CircleAvatar behind
the scenes also has some other things
but in the end, this is how Flutter works,
there's always more than one way of achieving something but that is something that shouldn't scare you
but that should actually be good because it gives you a lot of opportunities to build things in a different
way on your own or by using certain built-in widgets and you will also have that point
and that is absolutely normal
and I also have that point
even after all the time I worked with Flutter, where you suddenly find a new widget which you haven't
heard about before which does something which you always did differently and that new widget does it in
an easier way or in a better way
and there are also new widgets getting added to Flutter all the time.
So take all these widgets as an opportunity and use the official docs, the widget catalog to get a feeling
for which widgets you have and how to use them.
That's also the case for all these values like EdgeInsets here.
I know that when you're starting off, it's strange to see how I know that here you need EdgeInsets.,
in other cases you need to create a BoxDecoration object, then you suddenly need to use a Flexfit.tight
or something like that,
so how do you know when to create which value?
And there again, often hovering over a value gives you a first glimpse, a first idea,
here for example we get a hint at EdgeInsets.all and that is already pretty helpful.
If that doesn't help however, you can also click command or control click on a value to dive into its
source code basically and have a look at what's happening there and maybe get an idea of which value
would make sense there
or of course, check out the official docs for the card widget, for the ListTile widget to get a detailed
explanation of how to configure and use it and to see some examples.
That is how you get a feeling for that and the more you then work with Flutter, the more you remember
and the easier it gets to combine all these widgets together but also be prepared that you will hit
that point where you suddenly learn about a new widget or a new value and you can replace some of your
existing widgets with that
and that's not bad.
Using the second most widget is not the end of the world, doesn't mean horrible performance automatically,
that is how you learn Flutter and how you evolve as a Flutter developer.